>> Erik Reinert: However, [LAUGH] this
goes back to what I kinda mentioned before
about deploying and putting it out
there is only part of it, right?
The other part of it is
learning how to maintain it.
And sometimes you're really
gonna never know how to
maintain a system until
it's in production.
Until you've actually got users using it,
you've got actual data
going through it, this can be things,
user data sometimes and
most of the times is only
really accurate in prod, right?
At Hippo where I work we have
something called prod copy.
And it's a literal copy of production
that is closed off still, but
it has backups from nightly databases
of the production environment.
And so that makes it so
that we can test maintenance,
we can test deployments and
things like that against real data.
And until you get to the point you are
maintaining the architecture in a way that
you regularly updating it, maintaining it,
ensuring that is effective,
accommodating any changes or
things like that.
This part,
is really going to tell you if you
built something that is easy to maintain.
And this part of alone, can make it so
that you might end up going back and
changing a lot, right?
Testing something and maintaining
it are two very different things.
Testing it is to make sure that it works,
maintaining it is making sure
that it's up all the time, right?
And so maintenance around
this can be very learning
to how you actually end up
with the final solution.
>> Erik Reinert: So I do have some
best practices that I'm gonna go over,
which are kind of, again,
just reiterations of some of the stuff
that we've talked about before.
You should really involve all
stakeholders from the beginning and
going back to your question about
should developers be involved or not?
There might be an opportunity where
developers should be involved, right?
Maybe you've gone through challenges in
the past at a company where you've dealt
with, maintainability being difficult and
you wanna improve on that.
Maybe they didn't like the type of design
or the type of technologies that we
were using the past so that you can hear
those needs and those expectations, right?
Which phase do you think
this should be in?
>> Speaker 2: That
should be in a research.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep,
research exactly, yeah,
this should be in the research stage.
It's never too late or
too wrong to reach out to somebody and
ask them, what do you think?
And it never hurts to ask
that question either, and so
the more people that you get as
a stakeholder in what you're building,
like I said, it's easier to get that out.
It's easier to get more backing behind it,
it's good to get more people involved
in the project you're working on.
>> Speaker 2: Question.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Would you say that it would
have value or I guess what it makes sense
to incorporate things what Google does
with SLEs you have your SLOs as your SLIs.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: In where would you put in,
I guess in here?
>> Erik Reinert: So that would be in the
research stage, you'd wanna think about
any uptime requirements,
any SLAs, anything like that.
Anything that exists already
that could impact the design or
how it works should happen in the research
phase, because, I mean, again,
as I'm sure you understand what's SLAs,
it could change a lot [LAUGH].
That can be a very simple system to being,
well, we need not many four nines,
four nines is tough, that is a very
tough thing to provide as an SLA.
I mean, almost literally,
I think four nines is one day
of downtime a year, right?
And that's crazy, and
if you have that requirement for
that system, then it may be more
necessary to look into it, but
it might also just be good to
ask because maybe you don't.
When you talk about building a modular
system, it doesn't mean that everything
needs to have a high SLA, right, it may
mean that, well, yeah we have a high SLA.
But you know what?
You don't even have to worry about it,
it's really just for the frontend.
We just want to make sure that
users can still access the page.
We don't have to be worried about,
this deep, deep low level system that,
only really gets fired whenever
a specific event happens.
So yeah, SLA would definitely be
something you'd want to investigate,
early on into the research.
Again, best practice, use a modular
approach like modularity is really good.
As I kind of mentioned before, when you
have that modularity, it makes it so
that specific components can be easier,
updated.
Modularity is good, but you just,
there's like it, It's an art [LAUGH],
it really becomes an art, how much do you
abstract, how much do you modularize?
And if you feel like you have to be
honest with yourself, like again,
going back to that first workflow
I showed you of Quirk V1,
I can look at that now and
be that is way overkill [LAUGH].
And you need to be able to
be honest with yourself and
just ask yourself the question.
Is it too complex,
is it not modular enough?
Don't look at these as, I would look at
them as Legos, do they fit well together?
If they don't fit well together,
then it's a good idea to figure
out how to make them fit better.
Again, plan for
scalability it should definitely be
something that you can think about.
I would say that plan for
scalability doesn't necessarily have to
be massively in the research phase, but
it should be in the testing phase, right?
In the testing phase,
cuz that's really when you're gonna start
asking or answering questions around,
can it scale, do we have good
performance through things?
And that doesn't really start getting
answered until you start hitting it and
actually trying, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, how do you think about
scalability in terms of, I don't know,
time horizons, I guess,
I don't know if you've heard like
YAGNI you ain't gonna need it [LAUGH].
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah,
I've heard it a lot.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
that I think it's really easy to be,
we need to add a bunch of complexity so
that it's more scalable.
But you're, considering scalability at
a level that your company's not gonna
achieve for 10 years, in which case
everything's gonna be different anyways,
like where do you find
that balance [LAUGH]?
>> Erik Reinert: So, okay.
>> Speaker 3: Theoretically [LAUGH].
>> Erik Reinert: No, it's great that
you're asking that because I work at
a publicly traded company, right?
Our value is described entirely by
what we're building and whatever.
So you're never gonna be,
there is a terrible thing to have for
a publicly traded company [LAUGH],
you eventually want to get there, right?
You wanna have your stock go
over a hundred to $200, right?
They have good intent, but
they're not a good approach,
to say,
we'll never get there just means to say,
okay, well, you telling me
the company's never gonna grow?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I think there's
something there though about, okay,
maybe you're not never gonna need it, but
are you gonna need it on a time horizon
where it's relevant to worry about it,
now?
>> Erik Reinert: So I think a good
way of kinda thinking about this, and
don't know if this will come off
the right, cuz I'm doing it off the top of my head,
but think about loading dock for
boat, right?
You can easily just drop
a boat in the water, but
it's really hard to get that boat out of
the water if there's no, ease in, right?
So I think the goal there is,
is to have that ease in, sure,
we don't need that yet, but can our
auto scaler support it at least, right?
So that if we get there, we don't
have to rebuild everything, right?
Or, can this service handle this?
So here's a good example, Quirk V2
is built entirely to be serverless.
And the reason for that is for and
I was gonna talk about this later, but
I can talk about it now,
too, is for costs.
I wanna sell Quirk at a very low cost
because content creators are cheap,
[LAUGH] it's the easiest
way to put it. I'm cheap.
I don't wanna have to spend a lot of
money on a bot or something like that.
But the value I'm providing with that
bot is also hopefully enough to pay for
and make people pay for it.
And I had a conversation with a really
good friend of mine who works on probably
one of the most known and scalable bots
on the Twitch platform called Fossabot.
And I was, yeah, we're going to build
it serverless to start and he goes,
I could never do that.
And I was, well, what do you mean?
And he's, dude, I process hundreds
of thousands of requests,
if I pop that through Lambdas my cost
would go through the roof [LAUGH].
And I was, well, we're not there yet, so
should I worry about this right now or
should I not?
And so I decided, well,
maybe if I can build the system to modular
enough to where just that one component
that I'm worried about could be replaced
with a service instead of a Lambda.
Then it's easier to prepare for
that future and
I don't have to be as worried about it.
And that's going back to the whole,
plug and play of the bot engine,
why we built it that way.
It was to make it so that, for
example, discord can't be serverless.
Discord needs a WebSocket connection,
we can't get around that.
And so we already even know that
we're going to be building services
versus serverless and so we can take
this time over here where we know it's
gonna be valuable, to build that
loading dock and get comfortable.
So once I get to a point where,
I'm connecting this to a huge streamers
platform, I can just say, okay,
rip out the logic out of the Lambda, put
it into service, plug it into the API or
to the gateway and then bam,
now we have that scalability.
So make sure you have an out basically,
just make sure you have some kind of path
to where you can get to there, yeah.
>> Erik Reinert: And honestly, this is
kinda similar to what we were just talking
about, but you wanna make sure that
the system is robust and flexible, right?
Think about, what kind of deep problems
you're dealing with today, while also
making yourself a pathway to solving or
dealing with other problems in the future.
Like I said, I knew at some point,
Lambdas are gonna be costly,
every single time we literally fire
Lambda for every message in chat.
And for me, who's,
smaller streamer, I stream 150,
maybe max 200 people at a time,
that's not too bad.
But when you're streaming to 25,000,
50,000 people and chat's just,
[LAUGH] what I mean?
That's your Lambda bill, baby, and
that's gonna shoot real quick.
So you have to be prepared for
that robustness and that flexibility, and
like I said, we knew that, but
what's also nice is you might even
find really awesome opportunities.
So for example, this was brought
up in my chat the other day and
they were absolutely right, which was,
well, couldn't you have both?
Couldn't you have dedicated things for
huge streamers, but
still offload other things to Lambda and
still have that cost effectiveness.
And we could, yeah, we totally could,
now that we have that modularity,
we could even do something and say,
okay, well, if you're on this plan,
then you use the Lambdas, right?
And that's because you're low traffic, we
don't have to worry about the cost there.
But if you're on this plan, then we'll
actually route you to the running service
so that everything is going through this,
fire hose and
we don't have to worry about your traffic
affecting other people's traffic.
And so that's robustness, that's
flexibility that we were able to get
because we said, no, we're gonna do this
first, but we're also gonna make it so
that the system can be kind of plug and
play with other things.
Again, security is heavily,
heavily important,
making sure that you're constantly
addressing security if you have a SecOps
team do involve them in the research part.
I would involve any teams like security or
anything like that in the research
because I don't know how it works
at your guys' companies, but
the moment security walks in and
says no, its a hard no [LAUGH].
I cannot move much when our CTO or
not our CTO, our CSO,
comes in and is, hey, no,
that dude lays the law.
And so you don't wanna go through building
a design and then having your CSOs,
or your security team being like,
no, [LAUGH] we can't do this.
So those are a good part to
include in the original design.
Again, keeping up with
latest technology trends and
stuff like that to make
informed design decisions.
It's even good to keep up with
these after you've deployed, right?
Being able to say, okay, well I see that
this is out there, but you know what?
Our system is still good that can help
validate what you've already built.
Or there could be opportunities for
change even after I'm saying, well,
you know what?
There's this new thing that we can easily
drag and drop and it'll work pretty well.
Let's give it a shot, let's go back to the
research, let's change the design a bit,
and let's make our changes where we want.
I would say, the hardest part about
architecture design is the initial design.
After you've got something
that you're sitting on top of,
that you're comfortable with,
that you've already got in production.
Again, this is why companies like Netflix,
Google and Amazon are actually able
to iterate so well, is because they've
solved a lot of these problems already.
They can go, okay now I'm just
gonna tweak just a little bit,
tweak a little bit here and there.
And again, I have friends who work
at Netflix and their sole job was to
just tweak that one lever,
just make that one thing much faster.
They didn't have to worry
about the entire system,
because a lot of that was already
solved for, or it was taken care of.
And that's where, you get those
kind of engineers who have worked
on these crazy, weird situations that are,
very unique, but
also very hard to solve,
that laser focus can help a lot with that.
And again, incorporating feedback from
users to improve the system this should be
in all phases.
This should be in research, this should be
in test, this should be in development,
this should be in deployment and
this should be in maintenance.
It should be in all of those phases.
If there's ever a point where you
feel like, you don't understand what
problem this is solving for the user,
then you need to take a step back and
understand what it is,
and why you're doing it.
It can remove from that scope,
it can realign your focus and
can help either slim the design or
even make it more complex.